# Automate Multi Criteria Decision Analysis in GIS
# Theme : Application for housing development.

Right from the food we eat till the clothes we prefer to wear; our decision depends on various important criteria that we need to prioritize strategically.  Similarly, in the contemporary world, the need for intelligent spatial decision making has gained a paramount importance. Let it be selecting a best place for building a new house or opening a new restaurant or relocating a company’s office, every decision can make or break the business. Making wise decisions in industrial site selection and housing development sites by the government agencies needs a lot of attention and care that needs to be taken which is dependent on various decision factors. In the field of GIS, the process of Multi criteria decision analysis help us in deciding about the prioritization of our criteria. The current research is about utilizing GIS based multi criteria decision approach for mapping the accessibility patterns of development sites for housing in the Richardson, TX. The main idea of this research was to implement a modern desktop GIS based interface for performing automated multi criteria decision analysis.  Out of the available MCDA methods, AHP was chosen because of its simplicity, wide acceptance in past literature. ArcGIS Pro was preferred over other GIS packages for making a plug in because of its high-level mapping capabilities and a multi core processing environment. Add-in frame work for AHP multi criteria decision method was done in a raster based GIS environment. The developed add-in serves like a plug and play tool for the users. The main goal of this research was to make the decision-making process simpler by automating the Multi Criteria Decision methods. This also minimizes the laborious calculation process involved in making decision process. Hence it helps the authorities in evaluating and prioritizing the probable housing development sites with respect to accessibility levels. In addition, an attempt was made to carry out sensitivity analysis besides AHP process, which helps us in knowing how the overall suitability is getting changed based on a percentage increase or decrease in weights.


Keywords: MCDA, AHP, GIS, Housing Development, Accessibility, ArcGIS Pro SDK
